publications.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: "Publications"
permalink:  /publications/
---

Publications are in reversed chronological order.


<ul class="pub-list">

<!-- 2025 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2025</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1017/qrd.2025.10012">
  <span class="pub-badge">QRB Discovery</span> On the possibility of carbon-free heteropolymers on Venus: a computational astrobiology study,<br>
  I. Madan, S. A. Aliabadi, J. Huhtasaari, E. Matic, E. Hogedal, K. Kamińska, F. Nilsson, A. Stark, F. Izquierdo-Ruiz, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, & M. Rahm, <em>QRB Discovery</em>, 6, e23, 2025.<br>
  <small>Supervised and co-created workflow to evaluate the potential for carbon-free heteropolymers on Venus using quantum chemistry.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="[ADD DOI LINK HERE]" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="qrb_discovery_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>


<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1073/pnas.2507522122">
  <span class="pub-badge">PNAS</span> Hydrogen cyanide and hydrocarbons mix on Titan,<br>
  F. Izquierdo-Ruiz, M. L. Cable, R. Hodyss, T. H. Vu, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, A. Lobato, & M. Rahm, <em>Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.</em>, 122, e2507522122, 2025.<br>
  <small>Developed and tested crystal structure prediction program workflow for molecular cocrystals of hydrogen cyanide.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2507522122" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="pnas_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1021/acsestair.5c00119">
  <span class="pub-badge">ACS ES&T Air</span> Traffic-emitted amines promote new particle formation at roadsides,<br>
  J. Brean, F. Bortolussi, A. Rowell, D. C. S. Beddows, K. Weinhold, P. Mettke, M. Merkel, A. Kumar, S. Barua, S. Iyer, A. Karppinen, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, P. Rinke, A. Wiedensohler, M. Pöhlker, M. Dal Maso, M. Rissanen, Z. Shi, & R. M. Harrison, <em>ACS ES&T Air</em>, 2, 1704–1713, 2025.<br>
  <small>Supervised PhD student F. Bortolussi in developing and evaluating the machine learning model.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acsestair.5c00119" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="acsest_air_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.5194/gmd-18-2701-2025">
  <span class="pub-badge">GMD</span> Similarity-based analysis of atmospheric organic compounds for machine learning applications,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, P. Rinke, <em>Geoscientific Model Development</em>, 18, 2701–2724, 2025.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-18-2701-2025" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="gmd_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1089/ast.2024.0125">
  <span class="pub-badge">Astrobiology</span> Membrane-spanning molecular lengths as an agnostic biosignature,<br>
  M. J. Malaska, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, A. E. Hofmann, R. Hodyss, L. Rensmo, M. van der Meulen, M. Rahm, M. L. Cable, & J. I. Lunine, <em>Astrobiology</em>, 25, 367–389, 2025.<br>
  <small>Performed high-throughput quantum chemistry calculations to compute molecular lengths. Co-supervised L. Rensmo and M. van der Meulen.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1089/ast.2024.0125" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="astrobiology_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.5194/acp-25-685-2025">
  <span class="pub-badge">ACP</span> Towards atmospheric compound identification in chemical ionization mass spectrometry with pesticide standards and machine learning,<br>
  F. Bortolussi, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, F. Partovi, J. Mikkilä, P. Rinke, & M. Rissanen, <em>Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics</em>, 25, 685–704, 2025.<br>
  <small>Contributed to method development and data analysis for chemical ionization mass spectrometry with machine learning.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-25-685-2025" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="acp_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1039/D5CP01101A">
  <span class="pub-badge">PCCP</span> Predicting intersystem crossing rate constants of alkoxy-radical pairs with structure-based descriptors and machine learning,<br>
  R. R. Valiev, R. T. Nasibullin, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, P. Rinke, K. Puolamäki, & T. Kurten, <em>Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics</em>, 27, 14804–14814, 2025.<br>
  <small>I acted as co-advisor for the machine learning workflow and developed the MBTR model for comparison.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1039/D5CP01101A" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="pccp_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2024 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2024</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1021/acsearthspacechem.4c00088">
  <span class="pub-badge">ACSESC</span> A thermodynamic landscape of hydrogen cyanide-derived molecules and polymers,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, F. Izquierdo-Ruiz, M. Cappelletti, R. Dogan, S. Sharma, C. Bailey, & M. Rahm, <em>ACS Earth and Space Chemistry</em>, 8, 1272–1280, 2024.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acsearthspacechem.4c00088" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="acsearth_2024">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1002/advs.202306235">
  <span class="pub-badge">Adv. Sci.</span> Data-driven compound identification in atmospheric mass spectrometry,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, M. Rissanen, J. Rousu, P. Rinke, <em>Advanced Science</em>, 11, 2306235, 2024.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202306235" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="adv_sci_2024">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2023 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2023</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1021/acs.jpca.3c01504">
  <span class="pub-badge">JPCA</span> Crossroads at the origin of prebiotic chemical complexity: hydrogen cyanide product diversification,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, M. Rahm, <em>The Journal of Physical Chemistry A</em>, 127, 4503–4510, 2023.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.3c01504" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="jpca_2023">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2022: ADDED — PhD thesis -->
  <!-- 2022 -->
  <li class="pub-year-divider">2022</li>
  <li class="pub-entry">
    <span class="pub-badge">PhD Thesis</span>Nitriles in prebiotic chemistry and astrobiology,<br>
    <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, <em>Chalmers University of Technology</em>, ISBN: 978-91-7905-652-0, 2022.  
    <a href="https://research.chalmers.se/en/publication/532610" target="_blank">Full text (PDF)</a>
  </li>


<!-- 2021 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2021</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1021/acsearthspacechem.1c00195">
  <span class="pub-badge">ACSESC</span> The beginning of HCN polymerization: Iminoacetonitrile formation and its implications in astrochemical environments,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, M. Rahm, <em>ACS Earth and Space Chemistry</em>, 5, 2152–2159, 2021.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acsearthspacechem.1c00195" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="acsearth_2021">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2020 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2020</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1126/sciadv.aax0272">
  <span class="pub-badge">Sci. Adv.</span> Can polarity-inverted membranes self-assemble on Titan?,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, M. Rahm, <em>Science Advances</em>, 6, eaax0272, 2020.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aax0272" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="sciadv_2020">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2019 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2019</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2018.10.014">
  <span class="pub-badge">DMID</span> Interspecies plasmid transfer appears rare in sequential infections with extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Enterobacteriaceae,<br>
  A. Lindblom, K. K. Sriram, V. Müller, R. Öz, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, C. Åhrén, F. Westerlund, & N. Karami, <em>Diagnostic Microbiology and Infectious Disease</em>, 93, 380–385, 2019.<br>
  <small>I performed fluorescence microscopy assays where I stained, trapped, and photographed plasmids in nanochannels.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2018.10.014" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="dmid_2019">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

</ul>

<!-- Style for underlined name -->
<style>
.author-underline {
  text-decoration: underline;
}
</style>

<!-- Inline BibTeX Download Script -->
<script>
const bibEntries = {
  pnas_2025: `@article{Izquierdo-Ruiz2025,
author = {F. Izquierdo-Ruiz and M. L. Cable and R. Hodyss and T. H. Vu and H. Sandström and A. Lobato and M. Rahm},
title = {Hydrogen cyanide and hydrocarbons mix on Titan},
journal = {Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.},
year = {2025},
volume = {122},
pages = {e2507522122},
doi = {10.1073/pnas.2507522122}
}`,
  acsest_air_2025: `@article{Brean2025,
author = {J. Brean and F. Bortolussi and A. Rowell and D. C. S. Beddows and K. Weinhold and P. Mettke and M. Merkel and A. Kumar and S. Barua and S. Iyer and A. Karppinen and H. Sandström and P. Rinke and A. Wiedensohler and M. Pöhlker and M. Dal Maso and M. Rissanen and Z. Shi and R. M. Harrison},
title = {Traffic-Emitted Amines Promote New Particle Formation at Roadsides},
journal = {ACS ES&T Air},
year = {2025},
volume = {2},
pages = {1704--1713},
doi = {10.1021/acsestair.5c00119}
}`,
  gmd_2025: `@article{Sandstrom2025GMD,
author = {H. Sandström and P. Rinke},
title = {Similarity-based analysis of atmospheric organic compounds for machine learning applications},
journal = {Geoscientific Model Development},
year = {2025},
volume = {18},
pages = {2701--2724},
doi = {10.5194/gmd-18-2701-2025}
}`,
  astrobiology_2025: `@article{Malaska2025,
author = {M. J. Malaska and H. Sandström and A. E. Hofmann and R. Hodyss and L. Rensmo and M. van der Meulen and M. Rahm and M. L. Cable and J. I. Lunine},
title = {Membrane-Spanning Molecular Lengths as an Agnostic Biosignature},
journal = {Astrobiology},
year = {2025},
volume = {25},
pages = {367--389},
doi = {10.1089/ast.2024.0125}
}`,
  acp_2025: `@article{Bortolussi2025ACP,
author = {F. Bortolussi and H. Sandström and F. Partovi and J. Mikkilä and P. Rinke and M. Rissanen},
title = {Towards atmospheric compound identification in chemical ionization mass spectrometry with pesticide standards and machine learning},
journal = {Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics},
year = {2025},
volume = {25},
pages = {685--704},
doi = {10.5194/acp-25-685-2025}
}`,
  pccp_2025: `@article{Valiev2025,
author = {R. R. Valiev and R. T. Nasibullin and H. Sandström and P. Rinke and K. Puolamäki and T. Kurten},
title = {Predicting Intersystem Crossing Rate Constants of Alkoxy-Radical Pairs with Structure-Based Descriptors and Machine Learning},
journal = {Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics},
year = {2025},
volume = {27},
pages = {14804--14814},
doi = {10.1039/D5CP01101A}
}`,
  acsearth_2024: `@article{Sandstrom2024ACSESC,
author = {H. Sandström and F. Izquierdo-Ruiz and M. Cappelletti and R. Dogan and S. Sharma and C. Bailey and M. Rahm},
title = {A Thermodynamic Landscape of Hydrogen Cyanide-Derived Molecules and Polymers},
journal = {ACS Earth and Space Chemistry},
year = {2024},
volume = {8},
pages = {1272--1280},
doi = {10.1021/acsearthspacechem.4c00088}
}`,
  adv_sci_2024: `@article{Sandstrom2024AdvSci,
author = {H. Sandström and M. Rissanen and J. Rousu and P. Rinke},
title = {Data‐Driven Compound Identification in Atmospheric Mass Spectrometry},
journal = {Advanced Science},
year = {2024},
volume = {11},
pages = {2306235},
doi = {10.1002/advs.202306235}
}`,
  jpca_2023: `@article{Sandstrom2023JPCA,
author = {H. Sandström and M. Rahm},
title = {Crossroads at the origin of prebiotic chemical complexity: Hydrogen cyanide product diversification},
journal = {The Journal of Physical Chemistry A},
year = {2023},
volume = {127},
pages = {4503--4510},
doi = {10.1021/acs.jpca.3c01504}
}`,
  acsearth_2021: `@article{Sandstrom2021ACSESC,
author = {H. Sandström and M. Rahm},
title = {The beginning of HCN polymerization: Iminoacetonitrile formation and its implications in astrochemical environments},
journal = {ACS Earth and Space Chemistry},
year = {2021},
volume = {5},
pages = {2152--2159},
doi = {10.1021/acsearthspacechem.1c00195}
}`,
  sciadv_2020: `@article{Sandstrom2020SciAdv,
author = {H. Sandström and M. Rahm},
title = {Can polarity-inverted membranes self-assemble on Titan?},
journal = {Science Advances},
year = {2020},
volume = {6},
pages = {eaax0272},
doi = {10.1126/sciadv.aax0272}
}`,
  dmid_2019: `@article{Lindblom2019,
author = {A. Lindblom and K. K. Sriram and V. Müller and R. Öz and H. Sandström and C. Åhrén and F. Westerlund and N. Karami},
title = {Interspecies plasmid transfer appears rare in sequential infections with extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Enterobacteriaceae},
journal = {Diagnostic Microbiology and Infectious Disease},
year = {2019},
volume = {93},
pages = {380--385},
doi = {10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2018.10.014}
}`
};

// BibTeX download
document.querySelectorAll('.bib-button').forEach(button => {
  button.addEventListener('click', () => {
    const key = button.dataset.bib;
    if (!bibEntries[key]) return alert("BibTeX entry not found!");
    const blob = new Blob([bibEntries[key]], { type: 'text/plain' });
    const url = URL.createObjectURL(blob);
    const a = document.createElement('a');
    a.href = url;
    a.download = key + '.bib';
    document.body.appendChild(a);
    a.click();
    document.body.removeChild(a);
    URL.revokeObjectURL(url);
  });
});
</script>

Commit message:

Add BibTeX entries for new publications
Added BibTeX entries for two articles related to astrobiology and Titan.

publications.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: "Publications"
permalink:  /publications/
---

Publications are in reversed chronological order.


<ul class="pub-list">

<!-- 2025 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2025</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1017/qrd.2025.10012">
  <span class="pub-badge">QRB Discovery</span> On the possibility of carbon-free heteropolymers on Venus: a computational astrobiology study,<br>
  I. Madan, S. A. Aliabadi, J. Huhtasaari, E. Matic, E. Hogedal, K. Kamińska, F. Nilsson, A. Stark, F. Izquierdo-Ruiz, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, & M. Rahm, <em>QRB Discovery</em>, 6, e23, 2025.<br>
  <small>Supervised and co-created workflow to evaluate the potential for carbon-free heteropolymers on Venus using quantum chemistry.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="[ADD DOI LINK HERE]" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="qrb_discovery_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>


<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1073/pnas.2507522122">
  <span class="pub-badge">PNAS</span> Hydrogen cyanide and hydrocarbons mix on Titan,<br>
  F. Izquierdo-Ruiz, M. L. Cable, R. Hodyss, T. H. Vu, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, A. Lobato, & M. Rahm, <em>Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.</em>, 122, e2507522122, 2025.<br>
  <small>Developed and tested crystal structure prediction program workflow for molecular cocrystals of hydrogen cyanide.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.2507522122" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="pnas_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1021/acsestair.5c00119">
  <span class="pub-badge">ACS ES&T Air</span> Traffic-emitted amines promote new particle formation at roadsides,<br>
  J. Brean, F. Bortolussi, A. Rowell, D. C. S. Beddows, K. Weinhold, P. Mettke, M. Merkel, A. Kumar, S. Barua, S. Iyer, A. Karppinen, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, P. Rinke, A. Wiedensohler, M. Pöhlker, M. Dal Maso, M. Rissanen, Z. Shi, & R. M. Harrison, <em>ACS ES&T Air</em>, 2, 1704–1713, 2025.<br>
  <small>Supervised PhD student F. Bortolussi in developing and evaluating the machine learning model.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acsestair.5c00119" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="acsest_air_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.5194/gmd-18-2701-2025">
  <span class="pub-badge">GMD</span> Similarity-based analysis of atmospheric organic compounds for machine learning applications,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, P. Rinke, <em>Geoscientific Model Development</em>, 18, 2701–2724, 2025.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.5194/gmd-18-2701-2025" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="gmd_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1089/ast.2024.0125">
  <span class="pub-badge">Astrobiology</span> Membrane-spanning molecular lengths as an agnostic biosignature,<br>
  M. J. Malaska, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, A. E. Hofmann, R. Hodyss, L. Rensmo, M. van der Meulen, M. Rahm, M. L. Cable, & J. I. Lunine, <em>Astrobiology</em>, 25, 367–389, 2025.<br>
  <small>Performed high-throughput quantum chemistry calculations to compute molecular lengths. Co-supervised L. Rensmo and M. van der Meulen.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1089/ast.2024.0125" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="astrobiology_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.5194/acp-25-685-2025">
  <span class="pub-badge">ACP</span> Towards atmospheric compound identification in chemical ionization mass spectrometry with pesticide standards and machine learning,<br>
  F. Bortolussi, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, F. Partovi, J. Mikkilä, P. Rinke, & M. Rissanen, <em>Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics</em>, 25, 685–704, 2025.<br>
  <small>Contributed to method development and data analysis for chemical ionization mass spectrometry with machine learning.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.5194/acp-25-685-2025" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="acp_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1039/D5CP01101A">
  <span class="pub-badge">PCCP</span> Predicting intersystem crossing rate constants of alkoxy-radical pairs with structure-based descriptors and machine learning,<br>
  R. R. Valiev, R. T. Nasibullin, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, P. Rinke, K. Puolamäki, & T. Kurten, <em>Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics</em>, 27, 14804–14814, 2025.<br>
  <small>I acted as co-advisor for the machine learning workflow and developed the MBTR model for comparison.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1039/D5CP01101A" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="pccp_2025">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2024 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2024</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1021/acsearthspacechem.4c00088">
  <span class="pub-badge">ACSESC</span> A thermodynamic landscape of hydrogen cyanide-derived molecules and polymers,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, F. Izquierdo-Ruiz, M. Cappelletti, R. Dogan, S. Sharma, C. Bailey, & M. Rahm, <em>ACS Earth and Space Chemistry</em>, 8, 1272–1280, 2024.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acsearthspacechem.4c00088" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="acsearth_2024">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1002/advs.202306235">
  <span class="pub-badge">Adv. Sci.</span> Data-driven compound identification in atmospheric mass spectrometry,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, M. Rissanen, J. Rousu, P. Rinke, <em>Advanced Science</em>, 11, 2306235, 2024.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1002/advs.202306235" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="adv_sci_2024">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2023 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2023</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1021/acs.jpca.3c01504">
  <span class="pub-badge">JPCA</span> Crossroads at the origin of prebiotic chemical complexity: hydrogen cyanide product diversification,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, M. Rahm, <em>The Journal of Physical Chemistry A</em>, 127, 4503–4510, 2023.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jpca.3c01504" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="jpca_2023">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2022: ADDED — PhD thesis -->
  <!-- 2022 -->
  <li class="pub-year-divider">2022</li>
  <li class="pub-entry">
    <span class="pub-badge">PhD Thesis</span>Nitriles in prebiotic chemistry and astrobiology,<br>
    <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, <em>Chalmers University of Technology</em>, ISBN: 978-91-7905-652-0, 2022.  
    <a href="https://research.chalmers.se/en/publication/532610" target="_blank">Full text (PDF)</a>
  </li>


<!-- 2021 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2021</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1021/acsearthspacechem.1c00195">
  <span class="pub-badge">ACSESC</span> The beginning of HCN polymerization: Iminoacetonitrile formation and its implications in astrochemical environments,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, M. Rahm, <em>ACS Earth and Space Chemistry</em>, 5, 2152–2159, 2021.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1021/acsearthspacechem.1c00195" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="acsearth_2021">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2020 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2020</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1126/sciadv.aax0272">
  <span class="pub-badge">Sci. Adv.</span> Can polarity-inverted membranes self-assemble on Titan?,<br>
  <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, M. Rahm, <em>Science Advances</em>, 6, eaax0272, 2020.<br>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1126/sciadv.aax0272" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="sciadv_2020">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

<!-- 2019 -->
<li class="pub-year-divider">2019</li>

<li class="pub-entry" data-doi="10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2018.10.014">
  <span class="pub-badge">DMID</span> Interspecies plasmid transfer appears rare in sequential infections with extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Enterobacteriaceae,<br>
  A. Lindblom, K. K. Sriram, V. Müller, R. Öz, <span class="author-underline">H. Sandström</span>, C. Åhrén, F. Westerlund, & N. Karami, <em>Diagnostic Microbiology and Infectious Disease</em>, 93, 380–385, 2019.<br>
  <small>I performed fluorescence microscopy assays where I stained, trapped, and photographed plasmids in nanochannels.</small>
  <div class="pub-buttons">
    <a class="doi-button" href="https://doi.org/10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2018.10.014" target="_blank">HTML</a>
    <button class="bib-button" data-bib="dmid_2019">BIB</button>
  </div>
</li>

</ul>

<!-- Style for underlined name -->
<style>
.author-underline {
  text-decoration: underline;
}
</style>

<!-- Inline BibTeX Download Script -->
<script>
const bibEntries = {
  qrb_discovery_2025: `@article{Madan2025,
author = {I. Madan and S. A. Aliabadi and J. Huhtasaari and E. Matic and E. Hogedal and K. Kamińska and F. Nilsson and A. Stark and F. Izquierdo-Ruiz and H. Sandström and M. Rahm},
title = {On the possibility of carbon-free heteropolymers on Venus: a computational astrobiology study},
journal = {QRB Discovery},
year = {2025},
volume = {6},
pages = {e23},
doi = {ADD_DOI_HERE}
}`,
  pnas_2025: `@article{Izquierdo-Ruiz2025,
author = {F. Izquierdo-Ruiz and M. L. Cable and R. Hodyss and T. H. Vu and H. Sandström and A. Lobato and M. Rahm},
title = {Hydrogen cyanide and hydrocarbons mix on Titan},
journal = {Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A.},
year = {2025},
volume = {122},
pages = {e2507522122},
doi = {10.1073/pnas.2507522122}
}`,
  acsest_air_2025: `@article{Brean2025,
author = {J. Brean and F. Bortolussi and A. Rowell and D. C. S. Beddows and K. Weinhold and P. Mettke and M. Merkel and A. Kumar and S. Barua and S. Iyer and A. Karppinen and H. Sandström and P. Rinke and A. Wiedensohler and M. Pöhlker and M. Dal Maso and M. Rissanen and Z. Shi and R. M. Harrison},
title = {Traffic-Emitted Amines Promote New Particle Formation at Roadsides},
journal = {ACS ES&T Air},
year = {2025},
volume = {2},
pages = {1704--1713},
doi = {10.1021/acsestair.5c00119}
}`,
  gmd_2025: `@article{Sandstrom2025GMD,
author = {H. Sandström and P. Rinke},
title = {Similarity-based analysis of atmospheric organic compounds for machine learning applications},
journal = {Geoscientific Model Development},
year = {2025},
volume = {18},
pages = {2701--2724},
doi = {10.5194/gmd-18-2701-2025}
}`,
  astrobiology_2025: `@article{Malaska2025,
author = {M. J. Malaska and H. Sandström and A. E. Hofmann and R. Hodyss and L. Rensmo and M. van der Meulen and M. Rahm and M. L. Cable and J. I. Lunine},
title = {Membrane-Spanning Molecular Lengths as an Agnostic Biosignature},
journal = {Astrobiology},
year = {2025},
volume = {25},
pages = {367--389},
doi = {10.1089/ast.2024.0125}
}`,
  acp_2025: `@article{Bortolussi2025ACP,
author = {F. Bortolussi and H. Sandström and F. Partovi and J. Mikkilä and P. Rinke and M. Rissanen},
title = {Towards atmospheric compound identification in chemical ionization mass spectrometry with pesticide standards and machine learning},
journal = {Atmospheric Chemistry and Physics},
year = {2025},
volume = {25},
pages = {685--704},
doi = {10.5194/acp-25-685-2025}
}`,
  pccp_2025: `@article{Valiev2025,
author = {R. R. Valiev and R. T. Nasibullin and H. Sandström and P. Rinke and K. Puolamäki and T. Kurten},
title = {Predicting Intersystem Crossing Rate Constants of Alkoxy-Radical Pairs with Structure-Based Descriptors and Machine Learning},
journal = {Physical Chemistry Chemical Physics},
year = {2025},
volume = {27},
pages = {14804--14814},
doi = {10.1039/D5CP01101A}
}`,
  acsearth_2024: `@article{Sandstrom2024ACSESC,
author = {H. Sandström and F. Izquierdo-Ruiz and M. Cappelletti and R. Dogan and S. Sharma and C. Bailey and M. Rahm},
title = {A Thermodynamic Landscape of Hydrogen Cyanide-Derived Molecules and Polymers},
journal = {ACS Earth and Space Chemistry},
year = {2024},
volume = {8},
pages = {1272--1280},
doi = {10.1021/acsearthspacechem.4c00088}
}`,
  adv_sci_2024: `@article{Sandstrom2024AdvSci,
author = {H. Sandström and M. Rissanen and J. Rousu and P. Rinke},
title = {Data‐Driven Compound Identification in Atmospheric Mass Spectrometry},
journal = {Advanced Science},
year = {2024},
volume = {11},
pages = {2306235},
doi = {10.1002/advs.202306235}
}`,
  jpca_2023: `@article{Sandstrom2023JPCA,
author = {H. Sandström and M. Rahm},
title = {Crossroads at the origin of prebiotic chemical complexity: Hydrogen cyanide product diversification},
journal = {The Journal of Physical Chemistry A},
year = {2023},
volume = {127},
pages = {4503--4510},
doi = {10.1021/acs.jpca.3c01504}
}`,
  acsearth_2021: `@article{Sandstrom2021ACSESC,
author = {H. Sandström and M. Rahm},
title = {The beginning of HCN polymerization: Iminoacetonitrile formation and its implications in astrochemical environments},
journal = {ACS Earth and Space Chemistry},
year = {2021},
volume = {5},
pages = {2152--2159},
doi = {10.1021/acsearthspacechem.1c00195}
}`,
  sciadv_2020: `@article{Sandstrom2020SciAdv,
author = {H. Sandström and M. Rahm},
title = {Can polarity-inverted membranes self-assemble on Titan?},
journal = {Science Advances},
year = {2020},
volume = {6},
pages = {eaax0272},
doi = {10.1126/sciadv.aax0272}
}`,
  dmid_2019: `@article{Lindblom2019,
author = {A. Lindblom and K. K. Sriram and V. Müller and R. Öz and H. Sandström and C. Åhrén and F. Westerlund and N. Karami},
title = {Interspecies plasmid transfer appears rare in sequential infections with extended-spectrum β-lactamase (ESBL)-producing Enterobacteriaceae},
journal = {Diagnostic Microbiology and Infectious Disease},
year = {2019},
volume = {93},
pages = {380--385},
doi = {10.1016/j.diagmicrobio.2018.10.014}
}`
};

// BibTeX download
document.querySelectorAll('.bib-button').forEach(button => {
  button.addEventListener('click', () => {
    const key = button.dataset.bib;
    if (!bibEntries[key]) return alert("BibTeX entry not found!");
    const blob = new Blob([bibEntries[key]], { type: 'text/plain' });
    const url = URL.createObjectURL(blob);
    const a = document.createElement('a');
    a.href = url;
    a.download = key + '.bib';
    document.body.appendChild(a);
    a.click();
    document.body.removeChild(a);
    URL.revokeObjectURL(url);
  });
});
</script>
